Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. What's the catch? "What's the
catch?" is
something that we say when we believe a situation or an
offer is just too good to be true. It seems too good to
actually be real. So what we're saying is we think that
there's some hidden cost or problem or disadvantage that
will make us regret accepting the offer. So a "catch" in
this case is the hidden problem, the hidden cost, the hidden
disadvantage, that hidden thing you must do in order to get
the full benefits of this offer or this situation. So let me
give you an example. Let's imagine that this English teacher
is offering free classes all month to anyone who is
interested, and you and your friend are learning English. So
your friend sees this offer online and she gets all excited
and she just has to tell you about it. So she tells you,
"Man, this English teacher is giving free classes to
everyone all month. That's amazing, right?" And you, you're
a little more skeptical. And you say, "Yeah, that's cool.
But what's the catch?" So really what you're saying is,
"Yeah, that sounds amazing, but there's no way he's just
giving us these free classes in exchange for nothing. There
has to be some hidden cost. There has to be some hidden
thing, some problem or disadvantage that we don't know about
because this is just too good to be true. There must be a
catch." So after you do some research, you find out or you
discover that the only way to get that entire month of free
English classes is to buy the book that the English teacher
is selling, and the book is $100. So that's the "catch". In
order to get the free classes for a month, you first have to
buy this $100 book that the teacher is selling. That's the
hidden cost, the hidden problem, the hidden disadvantage.
You know, the thing that confirms this offer is definitely
too good to be true. Now, let me give you one more example.
Let's imagine that you want to buy a PlayStation 5. You
don't have enough money to buy a brand new one, so you're
going to go online to see if you can find a used one that's
in good condition. So you go on the Internet and you see
this PlayStation 5. It looks really good. And the seller,
the person who is selling the PlayStation says, "It's brand
new. I only used it once. It's in perfect condition." And
not only that, but the seller is selling this PlayStation 5
for just $50. $50 when the normal price of a brand new
PlayStation 5 is $500.
So you're all excited about this great deal, like, "Man,
this brand new or almost new PlayStation 5, this thing
should cost $450, $500, and he's selling it for just $50?
This is a great deal. I got to buy this!" Right? But the
catch is that the PlayStation is broken.
You just can't see that in the pictures online. It's only
after you pay the $50 and receive the PlayStation in the
mail and you plug everything in and you're all excited and
you try to turn it on, only then do you realize that you've
been played, you've been deceived, you've been taken for a
ride. Only then do you realize that was the "catch", is that
it's $50, yeah, but it's broken.
So in summary, a "catch" in this context is a hidden cost or
problem or disadvantage in a situation that seems too good
to be true. So whenever you're suspecting that a situation
or an offer is too good to actually be true, you can ask,
"What's the catch?" Or you can say, "There must be a catch."
So the first one is the question, you want to know, "What's
the catch? What's the hidden problem or cost or
disadvantage?" And the second example, you are confirming,
or you are, excuse me, you are affirming, you're saying,
"No, there's some hidden problem here. There must be a
catch. There has to be some hidden cost or disadvantage here
that you're not telling me about." Now, unfortunately, I'm
sure that at some point in time you will find yourself in a
situation in which you can use this phrase or this question.
But at least now you know what it is, what it means, and how
to use it. So that's Coffee with Kaizen #10 in the books.
I'll talk to you tomorrow.
Peace!